Devops Aws interview questions:
=================
Please brief me on your DevOps experience?
What is the role of DevOps and cloud in modern Software Development?
What is use of crontab ? could you please write shell command on crontab ?

What is the command for creating new branch in Git ?
===========
1.what is inode
2.what is softlink
3.what is hard link
4.what is boot process in linux
5.how do you check running processes on linux
6.what is /etc
7.what is /var
8.what is git pull
9.what is git fetch
10.what is the diff between git pull and git fetch
11.what are the plugins u used in jenkins
12.what is thin backup plugin
13.what is ansible
14.how ansible different from other tools like chef nd puppet
15.what is ansible role
16.what is handler in ansible
17.what is docker file
18.what are components of docker
19.what is auto healing and auto scaling in k8s
20.what is replicaset
21.what is terraform
22. What are terraform init, plan and apply
23. What is terraform module
24. ⁠what is terraform workspace
25. ⁠what is cloudfront
26. ⁠what is cloud watch
27. ⁠what is vpc (edited) 
=================
Terraform Variables concepts

Declare Variables:
------------------

Declare variables within your Terraform configurations using the variable block. Specify the variable name, type, and default value (if applicable).

Reference Variables:
--------------------
Reference variables throughout your Terraform configuration using interpolation syntax ${var.variable_name}. This allows you to access the values of variables and use them within resource definitions, expressions, or modules.

Input Variable Values:
---------------------
Input variable values can be provided via various methods, including command-line flags, environment variables, or variable definition files. This allows for dynamic configuration based on different environments or deployment scenarios.
=====
20/2/2025:
=========
1st round Interview Questions asked for SRE role..

Commands used for Kubernetes,Docker and Ansible..
Explain Kubernetes Structure, Config Map and Schedular..
3.How do you troubleshoot Imagepull backoff error ?
Explain installation of prometheus and grafana..
Explain how you build CICD pipeline..
How we monitor cpu matrics in grafana?
How do you grant access to user?

----


Explain OSI models
How do you did cost optimization in AWS?
Explain on Lambda, CFT, Data Storage, S3 ?
How do you implement best security policies on AWS?
What factor motivates you for this role?
6, Explain how you did your cloud migration?

---
Here is the list of questions,

1. Write a Terraform code to create multiple S3 buckets
2. How you managed statefile
3. So how are you managing the conflict? State file conflicts
4. what you did with Jenkins?
5. How are you integrating the SonarQube with the Jenkins serve...
---
From one of the linkedin post > interview experience happened yesterday (08-02-2025). . 1. Write a Terraform code to create multiple S3 buckets
How you managed statefile
So how are you managing the conflict? State file conflicts
what you did with Jenkins?
How are you integrating the SonarQube with the Jenkins server?
How were you authenticating Jenkins to push docker image to registery?
Have you worked on the Kubernetes?So what deployment strategy are you following?
So how are you implementing the blue green deployment?
Do you know what is HPA?
suppose you deploy one application okay and you found some issue, you wanted to roll back using the kubernetes how you roll back to the particular version, what is the command?
What is the stateful set in the Kubernetes?
Have you worked on the AWS, right?
So how many types of policy, IAM policy are there? IAM policies?
So what is the difference between the S3 bucket policies and acls?
what is the dynamic auto scaling?
What is the difference between Security groups and NACL?
25/2/2025
-----------
1.tell me abt yout self 
2.explain kubernetes architect 
3.have you worked on hybrid environment with AKS 
4.how do u implement cost optimization on AKS
 5. Difference between terraform and ansible 
 6.have u worked on Prometheus
  7.have you worked on isolated environment  
  8.explain ci/cd 9.what is the advantage of using AKS rather than using kubernetes

-------------
this is a company called "Glabant". it was a devops role :                                                          Can you explain your experience with AWS services?

If we are going to implement a solution for microservices, how would you propose a solution to implement a microservices architecture?



Why do you prefer to start with EKS instead of ECS?

   
Follow-up: What are the capabilities of EKS that make it a better choice over ECS for this project?

How would you configure the Elastic Load Balancer to work against the EKS cluster?

How many public subnets and private subnets are you going to use in the VPC?

In which subnets are you going to locate the ECS cluster and the RDS instances?


How would you handle multiple environments (development, staging, production) using Terraform?


Can you explain the steps involved in creating a CICD pipeline for deploying a Spring Boot application to ECS?

Can you share your experience in handling a large number of servers and your administrative responsibilities?

    
Follow-up: What kind of administrative tasks and responsibilities have you had in managing a large number of servers?

Are you available to work online from Monday to Friday for the first six months and visit client offices twice a week?

----------
here are all the questions the interviewer asked during the discussion, including the follow-up questions:

Can you tell me about a time when you realized you needed a level of subject matter expertise to do your job well? What did you do about that?
What was the situation where you needed deeper expertise?
What did you do to acquire that deeper knowledge?
What was the result of gaining that expertise?

Can you give me an example of a complex problem that you solved with a simple solution?
What parts of the solution did you directly implement or change?
How did you know the solution addressed the problem? Were there any metrics or changes you observed?

What is the name of the physical address of a device on a network called?

Do you know what DNS stands for and what it does?
When you type in a website address in your browser, how does DNS resolve that in the background?

Can you name some standard directories in a Linux system?

How would you troubleshoot a full file system on a Linux server?
Can you provide some examples of standard directories in a Linux system?
How would you specifically troubleshoot a full file system? What commands would you use?

How would you monitor system performance and manage processes on a Linux server?
How would you monitor system performance and identify processes consuming high resources?

Do you have any questions about the role at Amazon?

---------
Use of Route53
Git stash
Difference between S3 and EBS
difference between git fetch and git pull
What is the difference between vertical and horizontal scaling?
What is the role of continuous integration?
-----------
Explain OSI models
How do you did cost optimization in AWS?
Explain on Lambda, CFT, Data Storage, S3 ?
How do you implement best security policies on AWS?
What factor motivates you for this role?
6, Explain how you did your cloud migration?
--------
1st round Interview Questions asked for SRE role..

Commands used for Kubernetes,Docker and Ansible..
Explain Kubernetes Structure, Config Map and Schedular..
3.How do you troubleshoot Imagepull backoff error ?
Explain installation of prometheus and grafana..
Explain how you build CICD pipeline..
How we monitor cpu matrics in grafana?
How do you grant access to user?
 
-----------

Here is the list of questions,

1. Write a Terraform code to create multiple S3 buckets
2. How you managed statefile
3. So how are you managing the conflict? State file conflicts
4. what you did with Jenkins?
5. How are you integrating the SonarQube with the Jenkins serve...


